>> Jason Rodriguez: Now we're gonna
look at links and buttons in our emails.
Because this is where all the work
happens in email campaigns.
I mentioned earlier that all of your
campaigns should have some sort of goal
associated with them.
So it's very rare that we're sending
purely informational emails.
We almost always want somebody
to take some action and
an email,
whether that's visiting a website,
opening up an app on their mobile device,
going to some sort of form.
We want our emails to do some work for us.
And the way that happens is through links.
So using hyperlinks to take
them different places.
So it's very similar to the web, like
the magic of the web is in the hyperlink.
That's what the web is built on.
And the same thing applies for email.
We wanna make sure that we can get
people going where they need to.
A lot of that is making sure that
we're using those absolute URLs so
they go where they need to.
But there's a couple of things to keep in
my mind when you start introducing links
into your email campaign.
And a lot of this is
related to accessibility,
which we'll dig into a lot
more in a few minutes here.
So one of the main things
is use descriptive links.
So don't just say,
click here in a link because that's
not descriptive really at all.
You want to describe what happens
when that person clicks here.
So read this article and
have the the title of the article or
something like that.
If they're going to a help site like,
get help from our experts,
might be a good descriptive link.
So use descriptive links,
just don't say learn more or
click here for
whatever that link happens to be.
That'll help people out to understand
what is gonna happen when they take that
action.
One of my biggest things that I try to
encourage people to do is to embrace
those link conventions.
So by default, on the web,
when somebody adds a hyperlink,
we get that bright blue underlined text.
And that's good because it
establishes that convention.
Anybody that goes online,
they see that bright blue text that's
underlined, they know that it's a link.
It's gonna do something.
It'll take them someplace.
So I'm a huge proponent of embracing
that convention in your emails,
in your websites.
So in my mind, if something's underlined,
regardless of what color it happens to be,
it's a link.
I wouldn't rely on the strong tag or
emphasis for trying to convey
emphasis instead of an underline, because
you could introduce that frustration for
subscribers if you use an underline
that's not an actual link.
So I like using blue links too, but
obviously, color those how you want.
You rarely want to rely just on color for
denoting something's a link because we
do have people that are colorblind.
And they can see they don't get that
functionality based just on color alone.
So using those two in
combination is a great practice,
that's why it's convention for a reason.
And a big thing, especially when it comes
to buttons, is not using images for
buttons.
There's a lot of reasons why
you don't wanna do that.
The main one being a lot of email clients
will disable those images by default.
So if that is your main call to action,
and
the user doesn't even see it, the
likelihood of them taking that action and
doing what you want them to do is very,
very slim.
So we're gonna be looking at a couple
of different approaches to buttons.
There's a document called
Buttons.html in the GitHub repo.
It's similarly named in CodePen.
That'll give you a couple
of examples of how to
approach building out
buttons in your email.
So I wanna show you an example of that,
then we'll get to this exercise here.
>> Jason Rodriguez: So
I'm gonna open up, well,
let's let's start by looking at that link
that we had in our email campaign first.
So we have this link up here.
That's eventually gonna be a button.
So let's look at this
unsubscribe link here.
So right now,
it's just that default blue link that
we're all used to seeing down here.
So we could leave it that way.
Most email clients will
render it as intended.
But if we want to override that,
then we can use style in here.
We can update the color
to something like purple.
I am a big fan of updating the font
weight of text links to be bold so
that people that do have some
sort of color blindness or
it's, again, not just using
the color to denote that link.
So we have the underline.
We have the bolded weight, so you can tell
that this is a link, which is helpful,
especially when we add additional
tech surrounding that link.
So it's very obvious that
this is itself a link,
and it'll perform some
action when you click on it.
But the main thing we're gonna be
adding to our emails are those buttons.
So we, eventually, wanna make this look
like a button for people to click on.
But the way you do that in
email is a little bit different
from how you would in the web world.
So on the web side of things,
traditionally,
you would have like some sort
of CSS class called button.
You have to use things,
like depending on what it is,
you might make it block level or
an inline block element.
And then you would use things like
padding and the background color and
borders to style that component
to look like a button.
While we can do that for
certain email clients,
it doesn't work across the board for
a lot of email clients.
So we have to rely on a couple
of different techniques
to get these buttons working.
So let's look at what
this button looks like.
So up here it's just this big blue button.
It has some rounded corners.
This one has a hover cell applied.
These ones don't, but
we can add that as needed.
But these, generally, look the same.
This one's a little bit wider
just because of how it was coded.
But these ones are all buttons.
They have rounded corners,
the same text, same background color.
So there's a couple of
different ways to do this.
The the overarching term for something
like this is called a bulletproof button.
It's bulletproof because they work across
all these different email clients.
But the the first one
we're gonna look at is
the traditional kind
of bulletproof button.
And this was developed by a guy named
Stig Morten Myre, who works for
Campaign Monitor, years and years ago.
And Campaign Monitor,
they have a tool out there called
Buttons.cm, which was a website where
you can go and generate these bulletproof
buttons, which is an amazing tool.
So I grabbed some code from them and
update it a little bit just for
styling purposes.
But you can see that this is
using something called VML.
So we have this conditional comment
here that says, <!--(if mso)>.
So if this is viewed in Microsoft Office,
then I want this code down here to apply.
And this is using VML,
which is vector markup language,
which is this really arcane, verbose,
strange language that is
proprietary to Microsoft Office.
It's extraordinarily hard to
find good documentation for VML.
I actually have a blog post on my website.
I think it was called Dial M for MSO,
because I had enlisted the help
of one of Litmus' engineers had
to open up this really old file and
get this documentation working and stuff.
I think it's up on GitHub now.
But it's this really arcane language
that nobody outside of Stig Morten Myre
fully understands.
But what you're doing is using VML,
this vector markup to build these objects,
these shapes for your button.
So for Microsoft Office, it will see this,
it will render that button,
and it works in Outlook.
Whereas other approaches don't
necessarily always do that.
They work to some extent,
but will lose sizing or
padding on our buttons in Outlook or
other clients.
So really,
the most bulletproof version of a button
is this original bulletproof button
that you can use at Buttons.cm.
Buttons.cm is great.
It allows you to update
the text of your button.
You can add a background image, if you
want, something like a gradient or flames
on the back of your image, something
like that, your background color,
your font color, the button size,
border color, and then the URL.
And it'll just spit out this code for
you, which you can copy and
paste in your email.
This is super handy.
I highly recommend using it because
it is the most bulletproof approach
to building buttons.
But sometimes you don't
wanna have that in there.
From a maintainability perspective,
it's a little bit harder to maintain
to update the styling if you need to
update that on a per campaign basis.
So there's a couple of other
ways to add buttons in there.
The next one's using
a padding based approach.
So this is adding padding to whatever that
container for a button happens to be.
So for an email that's gonna be a table.
So this your first kinda introduction
to a table structure for an email.
So we have this table here.
We're gonna be setting a couple
of attributes there to override
default styling for that table.
But the magic happens on this
table cell for our buttons.
So we have the anchor tag in here,
where we set things like the font size,
the font, family, the color,
similar to how we do any other text.
But on the table cell we
introduce some padding
to provide that structure for our button.
And then we use something like border
radius to affect the corners and
then the background color
attribute on that table cell.
And that will give us
that second button type.
So this works pretty well
in things like Outlook.
We'll see these in Litmus in a second.
You'll lose a lot of that padding because
it doesn't respect it on a table cell,
which sucks.
So it doesn't look as good as
something like the VML-based button.
So then somebody developed this other
approach, which is using borders.
So instead of providing all
that padding on the table cell,
we add these gigantic
borders to the anchor tag.
So we, again, have this boilerplate stuff,
controlling the text.
The border-radius is in there.
We have a background-color applied.
But then you can see all of these borders,
we declare each individual border.
And then for things like the top and the
bottom, we have a certain height on those.
And then for the right and left we have
even more to make it look like a button.
So again, this works in different email
clients but not across all of them.
So then somebody went through and
combined those two things to this
padding plus border based button.
So we can see here we have
a couple of things going on.
So we're doing a little bit of
styling on the table cell itself,
the background color on the table cell,
table itself similar to how we did it for
that padding based approach.
But then we're adding a border in here and
then the padding on the link
itself instead of the table cell.
So again, this works in some email
clients, but not across all of them.
So those are a couple of options for
different buttons.
But I think it's important to see how this
actually renders across email clients
to get a sense of what you
should have probably use.
I still recommend using,
I think when it comes down to it,
I would fall back, that Buttons.cm the VML
approach just because it is the most
reliable across all these email clients.
But if you are worried
about maintainability,
customizing it, if you're using
some sort of build process or
like a framework to help generate your
emails, then you might need to fall back
to one of these other solutions
that is less verbose, less arcane,
easier to maintain and easier to
customize on a per campaign basis.
So you can see Apple Mail is awesome.
It's the greatest email client
in the world, no issues there.
We Outlook the VML one looks perfect.
The padding base button is not too bad.
We lose that border radius and
a little bit of the sizing around it.
And then the border base
button gets even worse, and
then the padding plus
border base is similar.
But we don't get things
like those rounded corners.
We're not gonna get background images in
there, and that's across the board for
most of the Outlooks here.
Mobile and
web mail clients are pretty much the same.
They render things pretty well.
Yeah, so Samsung mail is the one that
doesn't play nice with VML based buttons.
But you could use one of the other ones,
which is kind of annoying, but
it is what it is Samsung mail.
When you get into like web mail clients,
you'll see some randomness in here,
especially when you get into
European based clients like DMX or
mail.ru things like that.
Some of them work, some of them don't.
So I would recommend using
that VML based approach
because it is super reliable
across most email clients.
If you do need to update things easily,
then you might wanna
fall back on that border plus batting
heading based approach is pretty reliable.
But one thing to keep in mind, too,
is that if you're using one
of these other HTML and
CSS based solutions, then when you want
to add things like hovers, then it takes
a little bit more work because you're
overriding more of those CSS properties.
The VML one is nice because if we
look up at these hover states,
all I'm doing is assigning
a class to that button and
then using that pseudo selector, the hover
state and updating the background color.
So we get that hover.
It's super easy to override that with that
VML based approach, which is awesome.
But if you're using that padding or
the borders, then you're gonna have to
override each of those different CSS
properties, which gets super tedious.
You might leave one of those out.
And you'll get something with like
a red top border and green bottom or
something like that,
and it looks super bad.
So that's why I recommend
using that VML based approach.
And it's super easy cuz you
can rely on Buttons.cm to
just generate that code for you.
You can dump it in your campaign,
it works well.
The one thing that doesn't work that great
is responsive stuff for that button.
So if you have a long string of text
in that button and you expect it to
wrap on mobile devices because it's
too long to fit in that container,
making that responsive using the VML
button is a little bit harder to do.
So that's where those other
approaches are really handy too.
If you are using long links or
long CTAs in your buttons,
you might want to use one
of those other approaches.
Because you can adapt the text size and
stuff like that a little bit easy
than what you can do for
the VLM based approach.